---
layout: default
title: List of Rites
parent: Magic (Gishiki)
nav_order: 4
---

## List of Rites

- \[DICE\] are equal to Focus Dice invested in the spell.

- \[SUM\] is a number equal to the sum of rolled Focus Dice.

- Unless otherwise noted, all spells with ongoing effects last up to
  \[SUM\]Ã—10 minutes and have a range of up to 40 feet.

### 

### Ancestral Marking

**Uses**: 2

**To Use**: Write the name of target and affix rite card to the target.

**Effect**:

For \[DICE\] hours, the target benefits from the presence of a
benevolent ancestral spirit:

- +1 to WIL saves.

- May reroll 1 failed Save.

- If attacked by a spirit or yokai, the first attack is impaired.

Removing the card before the effect's time ends will end the effect.

### Blessing of the Dormant Seed

**Uses**: 2

**To Use**: Whisper hopes into a seed, then bury it using the rite card
to dig.

**Effect**:

Target's next \[DICE\] critical failures become normal failures.

###  Borrowed Voice

**Note**: Requires *previous* knowledge of **Call the Restless**

**Uses**: 1

**To Use**: Fold and place rite card under tongue.

**Effect**:

PC channels a spirit of a dead person tied to the area or to someone
present for \[SUM\] minutes, speaking with its voice to answer
questions, pass a message, or utter an omen.

Can only be done once per day.

**Fatigue**: PC gains 1 Fatigue in addition to FD roll.

### Breath of the Ten Thousand Pines

**Uses**: 2

**To Use**: Rub the ash of pine or cedar on target's forehead.

**Effect**:

Restore \[DICE\] HP or 1 point to an Ability score (not to exceed
original). This effect does not end with rest.

###  Call the Restless

**Uses**: 2

**To Use**: Sit cross-legged in silence, blindfolded. Speak the name of
the deceased.

**Effect**:

PC may commune with the spirit of a dead person tied to the area or to
someone present. You may ask \[DICE\] questions. The Guide must answer
truthfully but can answer vaguely.

### Celestial Seal

**Note**: Requires previous knowledge of **Heaven's Reflection**.

**Uses**: 1

**To Use**: Draw celestial sigils on a surface (in dirt, on a rock, on a
table) and place the card in the center.

**Effect**:

Area within a 100 ft radius protected from malicious spirits for \[SUM\]
x 10 minutes.

**Fatigue**: PC gains 1 Fatigue in addition to FD roll.

### Descent of the Hidden Flame

**Uses**: 1

**To Use**: Burn the rite card while seated in an otherwise dark space.

**Effect**:

PC enters a trance and speaks in a voice not their own for \[SUM\]
minutes. The Guide speaks for the PC, providing a cryptic vision or
phrase relating to a question or the party's current adventure. The PC
will not remember what was said afterward.

### Direction of the Stars {#direction-of-the-stars .Rite-Title}

**Uses**: 2

**To Use**: Holding the card pinched between thumb and index finger,
observe the position of stars and clouds at dawn or dusk.

**Effect**:

Ask \[DICE\] yes/no question(s) about the next day or night's events.
The Guide answers as truthful as possible, but cryptically. (Don't ask
"will PC die tomorrow?")

###  Directional Reversal

**Uses**: 3

**To Use**: Place at doorway of location with an identified known threat
and step away from threat.

**Effect**:

The specific known threat can not pass through that doorway for \[SUM\]
x 10 minutes. If the card is moved the rite ends.

Can only be used once per threat per day.

### Echo Beneath the Waves

**Note**: Requires previous knowledge of **Shroud of the Forgotten**

**Uses**: 2

**To Use**: Whisper over water (river, bowl, lake, puddle) and submerge
the card.

**Effect**:

PC learns a fragment of what happened in this location up to \[DICE\]
years ago. Gain an emotional or sensory imprint (a scream, blood in the
water, fire, laughter, chanting, etc).

### Elemental Harmonization

**Note**: Requires previous knowledge of **Directional Reversal**

**Uses**: 2

**To Use**: Arrange five tokens of any elements into a circle and light
a fire in center.

**Effect**:

Choose one of the following for yourself or another target:

- Fully restore 1 stat.

- Remove all fatigue.

- Cancel minor affliction, wound, curse.

Can only be used once per target per day.

###  Endure the World's Edge

**Uses**: 3

**To Use**: Name a specific source of harm that you may endure while
standing barefoot in cold water or wind for ten minutes, eyes closed,
arms outstretched, rite card held firmly in your mouth.

**Effect**:

For \[SUM\] x 10 minutes, you gain +1 to Saves vs harm from the source
you named.

### Gift of the Quiet Grove

**Uses**: 2

**To Use**: Moisten the back of the rite card and stick it to Target's
forehead.

**Effect**:

For \[SUM\] x 10 minutes, Target

- Gains +1 to their WIL saves.

- Is no longer Deprived if caused by fear, doubt, or spiritual
  affliction.

Effect ends if card falls off before time runs out.

###  Heaven's Reflection

**Uses**: 2

**To Use**: Sit facing the sunrise or sunset with eyes closed.

**Effect**:

Ask \[DICE\] yes/no questions about the present or past. The Guide
should answer truthfully, but cryptically.

Can only be used once per day.

### Presence of the Sky-Rooted One

**Uses**: 1

**To Use**: Burn the rite card and use the ashes to anoint Target's
chest and brow.

**Effect**:

Target gain boon of +\[DICE\] to any one ability for \[SUM\] x 10
minutes. If the ash is removed from either the brow or chest the rite
ends.

###  Sacred Boundary 

**Note**: Requires previous knowledge of **Presence of the Sky-Rooted
One**.

**Uses**: 1

**To Use**: Must be outdoors or near a notable natural space (mountain,
hot springs, etc.) Place rite card on a flat surface and pebbles or
twigs on each of the four corners.

**Effect**:

Creates a spiritual boundary of 100 feet for \[SUM\] x 10 minutes.
Spirits and yokai cannot enter the space. All Rites invoked within the
boundary gain +1 FD effect.

If the rite card is moved the effect ends.

### The Seeking Object

**Uses**: 3

**To Use**: Say something you are searching for and throw the rite card
into the wind.

**Effect**:

When thrown, the rite card will drift and land in the direction of the
object PC is searching for. It does not give any indication of distance.

### Sheath of the Ring

**Uses**: 2

**To Use**: Sit and breathe slowly while using the rite card to trace a
circle on the surface before you.

**Effect**:

Shielded from minor spiritual effects for \[SUM\] x 10 minutes.

### Shroud of the Forgotten

**Uses**: 2

**To Use**: Draw a circle counter-clockwise around the area you wish to
protect.

**Effect**:

For \[SUM\] x 10 minutes, you and allies within the circle are unseen by
spirits and yokai.

### Summon the Paper Dragon

**Uses**: 1

**To Use**: Fold into a paper dragon (as best you can). If PC can burn
the paper dragon, adds 30 minutes to effect.

**Effect**:

Forces yokai to flee from PC for \[SUM\] x 10 minutes.

### Thread of Intent

**Uses**: 3

**To Use**: Tie rite card around Target's arm with a red thread.

**Effect**:

For \[SUM\] x 10 minutes, Target's saves are at an Advantage (roll 2 d20
and keep the better result). If the thread is broken or card removed the
effect ends.

### Tongue of the Tool

**Uses**: 3

**To Use**: Tie the rite card to a tool or weapon more than 100 years
old.

**Effect**:

The PC may:

- Ask the tool 1 question (symbolic answer)

- Gain +1 to action involving the tool

- Discover a memory the item holds

### Trial of the Ember Path

**Uses**: 1

**To Use**: While holding the rite card in both hands, walk barefoot
across hot coals or embers. Do not break stride. If interrupted, take
1d6 damage and the rite fails.

**Effect**:

Become immune to mundane fire for \[SUM\] x 10 minutes and suffer no
damage from the next fire-based attack (even magical).

### Whisper of the Cliff-Wind

**Uses**: 2

**To Use**: Whistle (either naturally or with an object) into the rite
card while from a height above the ground.

**Effect**:

PC receives a message (symbolic -- smoke shifts, wind stills, animals
quiet, etc) and gains advance warning of a natural or spiritual hazard
within a mile---such as a yokai presence, cursed storm, ambush, or
earthquake - and its location within \[SUM\] miles. The Guide must share
one hazard nearby. If no hazards are within \[SUM\] miles, the Guide
must inform the PC.

###  Word Spirit

**Uses**: 1

**To Use**: Speak the name of Target into the card. Cannot be used if
speaker has lied in the last hour.

**Effect**:

For \[DICE\] x10 minutes, Target is friendly to the PC and must answer
honestly any questions the PC asks it.

**Fatigue**: PC gains 2 fatigue in addition to FD roll.
